LISA provides a single environment to test and ensure quality across 
all the implementation layers
 where data and business logic resides
Use LISA's easy point-and-click testing interface, then launch LISA tests from a command line.

LISA runs on any client and supports Java and .NET and any other SOAP-compliant web services.

Since LISA test cases and test runs are saved as XML files, you can incorporate them easily into your process as

attachments to groupware, SCM (Source Code Management) issue tracking and requirements management tools.

SOAP  is a protocol SOAP is a communication protocol designed to communicate via Internet.
It is an XML-based messaging protocol for exchanging information among computers
and the second is an architectural style.
**soap usage A SOAP client works like a custom desktop application, tightly coupled to the server. 
REST client is more like a browser. 
It's a generic client that knows how to use a protocol and standardized methods, and an application has to fit inside that.
***usage
Used LISA to examine and validate the data base tables connecting through JDBC. 
Automated REST services test scripts using LISA and SOAP UI. 
**usage of soap UI
Involved in Web Services Testing using SOAP UI to create and execute automated functional, regression, compliance, and load tests.  
**soa usage
SOA is an architectural style for building software applications that use services available in a network such as the web. 
I used SOA as a streamline processe so that they can do business more efficiently, and adapt to changing needs and competition, enabling the software as a service concept.

Extensively used LISA middleware testing tool to test JAVA middleware applications. 
Built effective test data covering all possible scenarios and added in datasheets for LISA Testing
Built the SQL logic in the LISA tool for automating the test efforts. 
Using Lisa Functional testing, tested dynamic web sites, Rich internet Application browser interfaces, and both the UI layers and SOA Implementation layers